“The real problem of humanity is the following: We have Paleolithic emotions, medieval institutions and godlike technology. And it is terrifically dangerous, and it is now approaching a point of crisis overall.”

While I’m still open to my career and calling shifting, I’m figuring out what is increasingly more interesting as I learn more. In its current form, I’m fascinated by emerging technologies and how they impact our quality of life, social infrastructure (ie. democracy), and etc. The problem I’m presently most interested in is the intersection of AI and democracy, and how AI can enable deliberative democracy. 

I’ve come to see AI as the steam engine of our century—profoundly transformative, but in need of deliberate guidance to serve the public good. Channeling this conviction into cautious techno-optimism motivates me to engage with digital ethics, policy, and technology for creating human flourishing. I aspire to pursue a career in public service at the intersection of public interest technology, law, and government—hoping to contribute to policy and legal frameworks that safeguard our civil liberties in the digital age. I’m also deeply interested in democratic innovation to make public decision-making more participatory, transparent, and equitable. I am invigorated by the movement and impact of civic and public interest technology.

Still, I’m uncertain how we will be able to mitigate the risks of AI, even currently even experts have a difficult time. When the new generation of leaders come into power, how can we come up with a solution? That, I’ve pondered for years, but I’m content to accept that I can contribute any small role to develop a positive vision for the world as transformed by AI.

As I’ve thought about AI every single day for the past year or two, I am deeply lucky that my intellectual interests align with a career with growing job prospects. On rare occasions, I’d ponder what my sell-out route would be – finance is not intellectually interesting for me, and in a decade or half that, I’d probably regret it because I won’t be interested in it. Luckily, there’s no path to selling out that I can conceive that interests me, which I believe to be a privilege. Perhaps, I also believe that the job market will undergo significant disruptions due to AI, therefore any secure high-paying job seems precarious (a few may remain, but it becomes even more competitive). Instead, I believe in cultivating agency, adaptability, initiative, and creativity in order to thrive in the 21st century.